Prepare for itt reform (#1249)
DFE-Digital/bat-design-history: app/posts/register-trainee-teachers/2024-06-25-preparing-for-itt-reform.md

---
  title:        Preparing for ITT reform
  description:  How the service will change to adapt to the new ITT policy
  date:         2024-06-19
  tags:
    - ITT reform
    - routes
    - providers
    - hesa
---

> To prepare Register trainee teachers (Register) for the changes brought by ITT reforms we needed to make updates to training routes and organisations. These changes will be in place for the beginning of the 2024 to 2025 academic year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prepare Register trainee teachers (Register) for the changes brought by initial teacher training (ITT) reforms, we needed to update training routes and organisations. These changes will be in place for the beginning of the 2024 to 2025 academic year.
```

As part of the changes, we added headings to the route selection screen.

Before:

![Screenshot of route selection screen showing that all routes are in a single list of radio buttons.](01-route-selection-before.png)

After:

![Screenshot of route selection screen showing routes organised by headings (Postgraduate (fee-funded), Postgraduate (Salaried), Undergraduate (fee-funded), and Other)](02-route-selection-after.png)

## Changes to organisations

From 1 August 2024, some higher education institutions (HEI) and school&#8209;centred initial teacher training (SCITT) will lose their accredited status. Of these, some will form partnerships with providers who retained their accreditation and will become ‘lead&nbsp;partners’.

Organisations that were ‘lead&nbsp;schools’, will now also be known as ‘lead&nbsp;partners’.

Thia introduces 2 types of organisation that Register did not previously need to account for:

1. Providers who lost their accreditation and stopped all training
2. Providers who lost their accreditation and have become lead partners

Both these new types of organisation will need to be:

- prevented from creating new trainees

> - able to view and edit trainees who started before 2024/25 (edit access is removed from all trainees once teacher status has been awarded)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- able to view and edit trainees who started before the 2024 to 2025 academic year (edit access is removed from all trainees once teacher status has been awarded)
```

Providers who become lead partners will need to have read&#8209;only access for trainees where they are the lead partner.

| Organisation type before 1 August 2024 | Organisation type after 1 August 2024 | Trainees who started before 1 August 2024 | Trainees who started after 1 August 2024 |
|---------------------|---------------------|------------------|------------------|
| Accredited provider | Accredited provider | Read&#8209;write | Read&#8209;write |
| Accredited provider | Lead partner        | Read&#8209;write | Read&#8209;only  |
| Accredited provider | Stoped training     | Read&#8209;write | None             |
| Lead school         | Lead partner        | Read&#8209;only  | Read&#8209;only  |

### Adding and updating trainee records through the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA)

Because the HESA data does not allow for the notion of ‘accredited&nbsp;provider’ or ‘lead&nbsp;partner’, lead&nbsp;partners will be permitted to use their student record system and HESA to submit records.

> When a lead&nbsp;partner uses HESA to submit data, the Register app will automatically attribute records to the accredited&nbsp;provider the lead&nbsp;partner is working with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a lead partner uses HESA to submit data, Register will automatically attribute records to the accredited provider the lead partner is working with.
```

Author: I'll change ‘the Register app’ to ’Register‘, but keep the non-breaking spaces
